---
title: '05. Create an Azure Database for PostgreSQL'
layout: default
nav_order: 5
parent: 'Exercise 01: Create Azure resources'
---


## Task 5: Create an Azure Database for PostgreSQL

Finally, you will provision an Azure Database for PostgreSQL 16 instance. This modern database environment provides scalability and reliability, supporting the city’s goal of delivering efficient public services.

1. From Microsoft Edge, return to the Azure portal. 

1. On the top global search bar, enter and select **Azure Database for PostgreSQL - Flexible Servers**. 

    [vzqi07o6.jpg](../media/vzqi07o6.jpg) 

1. Select **Create Azure Database for PostgreSQL - Felxible Server**.

1. On the **New Azure Database for PostgreSQL Flexible server** page, configure the **Basics** tab as follows: 

    | Item | Value | 
    |:---------|:---------| 
    | Resource group   | **RG1** | 
    | Server name   | **azuredb@lab.LabInstance.Id**   |  
    | Region  |   **West US** |
    | PostgreSQL version    |   **16** |

    {: .warning }
    > Confirm this resource is created in the **West US** region to ensure proper connectivity in later steps.

1. Under **Compute + storage**, select **Configure server**. 

1. Configure the **Compute + storage** page as follows: 

    | Item | Value | 
    |:---------|:---------| 
    | Compute processor   | **AMD** | 
    | Compute size   | **Standard_D2ads_v5 (2 vCores)** | 
    | Storage size   | **32 GiB**   |  
    | Performance Tier  |   **P4 (120 iops)**  | 
    | High availability    |   **Disabled**  | 

    [ggplc8ji.jpg](../media/ggplc8ji.jpg) 

1. Select **Save** to return to the **Basics** tab. 

1. On the **Basics** tab, set **High availability** to **Disabled**. 

1. Under **Authentication**, for **Authentication method** select **PostgreSQL authentication only**. 

1. Enter **postgres** for the **Admin username** and **Passw0rd!** for the **Password**. 

    [5ybqy1tx.jpg](../media/5ybqy1tx.jpg) 

1. Select **Next: Networking >**. 

1. On the **Networking** tab, configure the following settings: 

    | Item | Value | 
    |:---------|:---------| 
    | Connectivity method   | **Private access** | 
    | Virtual network   | **Vnet1**   |  
    | Subnet  |   **Vnet1/default** |
    | Private DNS zone    |   **(New)** |

    [oabyhrwz.jpg](../media/oabyhrwz.jpg) 

1. Select **Review + create**, then select **Create**. 

    {: .warning }
    > This process may take around 5-7 minutes to complete. 

    {: .important }
    > All the networking was set up first so that we could easily assign it to the new server upon creation. This connectivity method will allow anything on the Vnet1 private network to connect. With the point-to-site VPN connection established, the source server is connected to Vnet1. 

You've successfully completed this task and exercise! Select **Next** to continue. 