---
title: '01. Create a virtual network in Azure'
layout: default
nav_order: 1
parent: 'Exercise 02: Complete offline and online migration'
---

# Task 1: Perform offline migration 

You will finalize necessary configurations and perform an offline migration of the Adventureworks database. This approach is suitable when a brief service interruption is acceptable.

1. From the Azure portal, on the top global search bar, enter and select **Private DNS zones**. 

    [126r79z2.jpg](../media/126r79z2.jpg) 

1. Select the **azuredb@lab.labInstance.Id.private.postgres.database.azure.com** entry. 

1. On the left service menu, select **DNS Management**, then select **Recordsets**.

1. Identify the private IP address listed under **Value**. This should be the only address, which belongs to the new server. 

    [fa64umoe.jpg](../media/fa64umoe.jpg) 

    {: .note}
    > Your IP may differ from the screenshot. 

1. Enter the IP address below for future use: 

    `@lab.TextBox(privateIP)` 

1. Select **Windows Explorer** from the taskbar, and then go to **C:\Program files\PostgreSQL\16\data**.

1. Right-click the **pg_hba.conf** file, select **Open with**, select **Notepad**, then select **OK**.

    {: .note}
    > You'll have to select **More apps** to see **Notepad**. 

1. In Notepad, go to the bottom of the **pg_hba.conf** file and add an entry under **# IPv4 local connections** with the following: 

    | Item | Value | 
    |:---------|:---------| 
    | TYPE   | host | 
    | DATABASE   | all   |  
    | USER  |   postgres  |
    | ADDRESS    |   @lab.Variable(privateIP)/24  |
    | METHOD    |   scram-sha-256  |

    {: .note}
    > The **ADDRESS** listed above is the address from the earlier text box. If it’s blank here, ensure the text box from step 4 is filled out. 

    [lrtr7jn6.jpg](../media/lrtr7jn6.jpg) 

1. Ensure the file looks like the image above, with the exception of the **ADDRESS**, if it's different. 

1. Save and close the file. 

1. In the Azure portal, return to the home page by selecting the **Home** breadcrumb link in the upper left.

1. Under **Resources**, in the **Recent** list, select the **azuredb@lab.LabInstance.Id** Azure Database. 

1. On the **azuredb@lab.LabInstance.Id** page, on the left service menu, select **Settings**, then select **Server parameters**. 

1. On the **Server parameters** tab, enter **azure.extensions** in the search filter. 

1. For the **azure.extensions** parameter, select the **Value** dropdown, then select the checkboxes for:

    - **TABLEFUNC**
    - **UUID-OSSP**
    
1. Select **Save**. 

    [ga56cijg.jpg](../media/ga56cijg.jpg) 

1. Once the deployment of the parameters is complete, select the **azuredb@lab.LabInstance.Id - Server parameters** breadcrumb link in the upper left to return to the server page. 

1. On the **azuredb@lab.LabInstance.Id** page, on the left service menu, select **Migration**. 

1. On the Migration page, select **+ Create**. 

    [6s94hqsl.jpg](../media/6s94hqsl.jpg) 

1. On the **Migrate PostgreSQL to Azure Database for PostgreSQL Flexible Server** page, configure the following settings: 

    | Item | Value | 
    |:---------|:---------| 
    | Migration name   | **offlinemigration** | 
    | Source server type   | **On-premise Server**  |  
    | Migration option  |   **Validate and Migrate** |
    | Migration mode    |   **Offline** |

    [7nh93svl.jpg](../media/7nh93svl.jpg) 

1. Select **Next: Select Runtime Server >**. 

1. On the **Select Runtime Server** step, leave the default option of **No** selected, then select **Next: Connect to source >**. 

1. From the Windows taskbar, open **Windows PowerShell** and run the **ipconfig** command. 

1. Select and copy the IP address listed under the **Vnet1** connection, then close PowerShell. 

    {: .note}
    > Select the text and then select **Ctrl+C** to copy. 

    [86lvag86.jpg](../media/86lvag86.jpg) 

1. Enter the IP address here for future use: 

    `@lab.TextBox(VPN)`

1. In Azure portal, on the **Connect to source** tab, configure the following settings: 

    | Item | Value | 
    |:---------|:---------| 
    | Server name   | **@lab.Variable(VPN)** | 
    | Port   | **5432**   |  
    | Server admin login name  |   **postgres**  |
    | Password    |   **Passw0rd!** |
    | SSL mode   | **Prefer**   |  

    [a3zcj9s8.jpg](../media/a3zcj9s8.jpg) 

    {: .note}
    > Your IP may differ from the screenshot. 

1. Select **Connect to source**. 

1. Once the connection test completes, select **Next: Select migration target >**. 

1. On the **Select migration target** tab, enter **Passw0rd!** in the **Password** field, then select **Connect to target**. 

1. Once the connection test completes, select **Next: Select database(s) for migration >**. 

1. On the **Select database(s) for migration** tab, select the checkbox for **Adventureworks**, then select **Next: Summary >**. 

1. Select **Start Validation and Migration**. 

    {: .warning }
    > This process may take 3-4 minutes. 

    {: .important }
    > In an offline migration, all applications that connect to the source instance are stopped. The tradeoff is that it requires less configuration and performs faster. This can be useful in situations where downtime or maintenance is expected. 

1. Select **Refresh** on the **azuredb@lab.LabInstance.Id - Migration** page periodically until the **offlinemigration** job is complete. 

1. Once the migration is complete, select **offlinemigration**. 

    [g6jeja1p.jpg](../media/g6jeja1p.jpg) 

1. Everything should show as **Succeeded**. At the bottom, select the link to the **Adventureworks** database. 

1. In the **Validation and migration details for Adventureworks** flyout menu, select the **Migration** tab. 

1. Verify the **Database Status** shows as **Succeeded** and the **Number of tables copied** shows as **68**. 

    [j8kjkklj.jpg](../media/j8kjkklj.jpg) 

You've successfully completed this task! Select **Next** to continue. 