---
title: '02: Complete offline and online migration'
layout: default
nav_order: 2
parent: 'Exercise 03: Migrate an on-premises PostgreSQL server to Azure Database for PostgreSQL'
---

# Task 02: Complete offline and online migration

## Introduction 

Migrating databases to the cloud requires careful planning to balance downtime, data integrity, and service continuity. The City of Metropolis needs to migrate its PostgreSQL database from an on-premises server to Azure Database for PostgreSQL while minimizing disruption. To achieve this, you will perform both offline and online migrations.

An offline migration transfers all data in a single operation, requiring downtime but offering a simpler process. In contrast, an online migration allows data replication while keeping the source database operational until the final cutover. By using both methods, the city can assess migration strategies that best meet its operational needs.

## Description 

In this task, you complete an offline and an online migration of the City of Metropolis’s PostgreSQL database to Azure Database for PostgreSQL. You start by performing an offline migration, which involves stopping database activity, transferring all data at once, and validating the results. Next, you configure and execute an online migration, allowing data replication while keeping the database available.

These steps help ensure the city’s critical services can transition to Azure Database for PostgreSQL efficiently, with minimal downtime and maximum data integrity.

## Success criteria 

- You successfully configured and executed an offline migration of the PostgreSQL database.
- You validated that all data was migrated correctly in offline mode.
- You successfully configured logical replication for an online migration.
- You executed an online migration, ensuring data synchronization between on-premises and Azure.
- You verified that all database records were successfully transferred and are accessible in Azure.

## Learning resources 

- [Migrate PostgreSQL to Azure Database for PostgreSQL](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/postgresql/migrate/)
- [Offline migration using Azure DMS](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/dms/tutorial-postgresql-server-offline)
- [Online migration using logical replication](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/postgresql/migration-online-using-logical-replication)
- [Azure Database for PostgreSQL - Flexible Server](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/postgresql/flexible-server/overview)

## Key tasks 

### 01: Perform offline migration 

 <details markdown="block"> 
  <summary><strong>Expand this section to view the solution</strong></summary> 

You will finalize necessary configurations and perform an offline migration of the Adventureworks database. This approach is suitable when a brief service interruption is acceptable.

1. From the Azure portal, on the top global search bar, enter and select **Private DNS zones**. 

    [126r79z2.jpg](../../media/126r79z2.jpg) 

1. Select the **azuredb@lab.labInstance.Id.private.postgres.database.azure.com** entry. 

1. On the left service menu, select **DNS Management**, then select **Recordsets**.

1. Identify the private IP address listed under **Value**. This should be the only address, which belongs to the new server. 

    [fa64umoe.jpg](../../media/fa64umoe.jpg) 

    {: .note}
    > Your IP may differ from the screenshot. 

1. Enter the IP address below for future use: 

    `@lab.TextBox(privateIP)` 

1. Select **Windows Explorer** from the taskbar, and then go to **C:\Program files\PostgreSQL\16\data**.

1. Right-click the **pg_hba.conf** file, select **Open with**, select **Notepad**, then select **OK**.

    {: .note}
    > You'll have to select **More apps** to see **Notepad**. 

1. In Notepad, go to the bottom of the **pg_hba.conf** file and add an entry under **# IPv4 local connections** with the following: 

    | Item | Value | 
    |:---------|:---------| 
    | TYPE   | host | 
    | DATABASE   | all   |  
    | USER  |   postgres  |
    | ADDRESS    |   @lab.Variable(privateIP)/24  |
    | METHOD    |   scram-sha-256  |

    {: .note}
    > The **ADDRESS** listed above is the address from the earlier text box. If it’s blank here, ensure the text box from step 4 is filled out. 

    [lrtr7jn6.jpg](../../media/lrtr7jn6.jpg) 

1. Ensure the file looks like the image above, with the exception of the **ADDRESS**, if it's different. 

1. Save and close the file. 

1. In the Azure portal, return to the home page by selecting the **Home** breadcrumb link in the upper left.

1. Under **Resources**, in the **Recent** list, select the **azuredb@lab.LabInstance.Id** Azure Database. 

1. On the **azuredb@lab.LabInstance.Id** page, on the left service menu, select **Settings**, then select **Server parameters**. 

1. On the **Server parameters** tab, enter **azure.extensions** in the search filter. 

1. For the **azure.extensions** parameter, select the **Value** dropdown, then select the checkboxes for:

    - **TABLEFUNC**
    - **UUID-OSSP**
    
1. Select **Save**. 

    [ga56cijg.jpg](../../media/ga56cijg.jpg) 

1. Once the deployment of the parameters is complete, select the **azuredb@lab.LabInstance.Id - Server parameters** breadcrumb link in the upper left to return to the server page. 

1. On the **azuredb@lab.LabInstance.Id** page, on the left service menu, select **Migration**. 

1. On the Migration page, select **+ Create**. 

    [6s94hqsl.jpg](../../media/6s94hqsl.jpg) 

1. On the **Migrate PostgreSQL to Azure Database for PostgreSQL Flexible Server** page, configure the following settings: 

    | Item | Value | 
    |:---------|:---------| 
    | Migration name   | **offlinemigration** | 
    | Source server type   | **On-premise Server**  |  
    | Migration option  |   **Validate and Migrate** |
    | Migration mode    |   **Offline** |

    [7nh93svl.jpg](../../media/7nh93svl.jpg) 

1. Select **Next: Select Runtime Server >**. 

1. On the **Select Runtime Server** step, leave the default option of **No** selected, then select **Next: Connect to source >**. 

1. From the Windows taskbar, open **Windows PowerShell** and run the **ipconfig** command. 

1. Select and copy the IP address listed under the **Vnet1** connection, then close PowerShell. 

    {: .note}
    > Select the text and then select **Ctrl+C** to copy. 

    [86lvag86.jpg](../../media/86lvag86.jpg) 

1. Enter the IP address here for future use: 

    `@lab.TextBox(VPN)`

1. In Azure portal, on the **Connect to source** tab, configure the following settings: 

    | Item | Value | 
    |:---------|:---------| 
    | Server name   | **@lab.Variable(VPN)** | 
    | Port   | **5432**   |  
    | Server admin login name  |   **postgres**  |
    | Password    |   **Passw0rd!** |
    | SSL mode   | **Prefer**   |  

    [a3zcj9s8.jpg](../../media/a3zcj9s8.jpg) 

    {: .note}
    > Your IP may differ from the screenshot. 

1. Select **Connect to source**. 

1. Once the connection test completes, select **Next: Select migration target >**. 

1. On the **Select migration target** tab, enter **Passw0rd!** in the **Password** field, then select **Connect to target**. 

1. Once the connection test completes, select **Next: Select database(s) for migration >**. 

1. On the **Select database(s) for migration** tab, select the checkbox for **Adventureworks**, then select **Next: Summary >**. 

1. Select **Start Validation and Migration**. 

    {: .warning }
    > This process may take 3-4 minutes. 

    {: .important }
    > In an offline migration, all applications that connect to the source instance are stopped. The tradeoff is that it requires less configuration and performs faster. This can be useful in situations where downtime or maintenance is expected. 

1. Select **Refresh** on the **azuredb@lab.LabInstance.Id - Migration** page periodically until the **offlinemigration** job is complete. 

1. Once the migration is complete, select **offlinemigration**. 

    [g6jeja1p.jpg](../../media/g6jeja1p.jpg) 

1. Everything should show as **Succeeded**. At the bottom, select the link to the **Adventureworks** database. 

1. In the **Validation and migration details for Adventureworks** flyout menu, select the **Migration** tab. 

1. Verify the **Database Status** shows as **Succeeded** and the **Number of tables copied** shows as **68**. 

    [j8kjkklj.jpg](../../media/j8kjkklj.jpg) 

You've successfully completed this task! Select **Next** to continue. 

</details> 

### 02: Perform online migration 

 <details markdown="block"> 
  <summary><strong>Expand this section to view the solution</strong></summary> 

Next, you will configure connection options and execute an online migration, ensuring minimal disruption and enabling the city to continue providing public services without extended downtime.

1. From Windows File Explorer, go to **C:\Program Files\PostgreSQL\16\data** and open the **postgresql.conf** file with Notepad. 

1. In the **postgresql.conf** file, select **Ctrl+F** to find the value **wal_level**.

1. Delete the **#** at the start of the line to uncomment the setting.

1. Set the **wal_level** value to **logical**, and then remove the comment to the right. 

    [yktk443b.jpg](../../media/yktk443b.jpg) 

1. Save and close the file. 

1. A server restart is required for the changes to take effect. Right-click the Windows icon in the lower left, select **Shut down or sign out**, then select **Restart** to reboot the VM. 

1. Once the VM has rebooted, sign in again to **@lab.VirtualMachine(WindowsClientPostgreSQL16).Username** with **@lab.VirtualMachine(WindowsClientPostgreSQL16).Password**. 

1. Reconnect to the **Vnet1** VPN by selecting the network icon in the notification area and then selecting the **Vnet1** connection. 

    [ismt7gva.jpg](../../media/ismt7gva.jpg) 

1. From the VPN settings, select **Vnet1** and then select **Connect**. 

    [8wlflp18.jpg](../../media/8wlflp18.jpg) 

1. A separate **Vnet1** connection window will open in the background. Switch to it and select **Connect**. 

    {: .note}
    > A Window may show asking about privilege escalation, select **Continue**. 

    [oigc7yk6.jpg](../../media/oigc7yk6.jpg) 

1. At the User Account Control prompt, enter **@lab.VirtualMachine(WindowsClientPostgreSQL16).Password** and select **Yes**. 

1. Verify that **Vnet1** is connected successfully. The word "**Connected**" should show under the **Vnet1** connection.

    [q5bvkdzr.jpg](../../media/q5bvkdzr.jpg) 

1. If your Microsoft Edge session is not restored, open it and go to [https://portal.azure.com](https://portal.azure.com). 

1. If needed, sign in again to the Azure portal with the following:

    | Item | Value |
    |:--------|:--------|
    | Username   | **@lab.CloudPortalCredential(User1).Username**   |
    | Password  | **@lab.CloudPortalCredential(User1).Password**   |
 
1. From the Azure portal home page, select the **azuredb@lab.LabInstance.Id** Azure Database from the **Recent** list of resources. 

1. On the **azuredb@lab.LabInstance.Id** page, select **Migration** from the left service menu.

1. Select **+ Create**. 

    [t44jhi2u.jpg](../../media/t44jhi2u.jpg) 

1. On the **Migrate PostgreSQL to Azure Database for PostgreSQL Flexible Server** page, configure the following settings: 

    | Item | Value | 
    |:---------|:---------| 
    | Migration name   | **onlinemigration** | 
    | Source server type   | **On-premise Server**   |  
    | Migration option  |   **Validate and Migrate** |
    | Migration mode    |   **Online**  |

    {: .note}
    > When switching from **Offline** to **Online** for the **Migration mode**, you might notice an additional prerequisite is added below. The additional prerequisite for the online connection is to set the **WAL_LEVEL** to **logical** in the source server. This is the reason for the extra configuration and server reboot earlier. 

1. Select **Next: Select Runtime Server >**. 

1. On the **Select Runtime Server** tab, leave the default option of **No** selected and select **Next: Connect to source >**. 

1. On the **Connect to source** tab, configure the following settings: 

    | Item | Value | 
    |:---------|:---------| 
    | Server name   | **@lab.Variable(VPN)** | 
    | Port   | **5432**   |  
    | Server admin login name  |   **`postgres`**  | 
    | Password    |   **`Passw0rd!`**  | 
    | SSL mode   | **Prefer**   |  

    [a3zcj9s8.jpg](../../media/a3zcj9s8.jpg) 

1. Select **Connect to source**.

1. Once the connection test completes, select **Next: Select migration target >**. 

1. On the **Select migration target** tab, enter **`Passw0rd!`** in the **Password** field, then select **Connect to target**. 

1. Once the connection test completes, select **Next: Select database(s) for migration >**. 

1. On the **Select database(s) for migration** tab, select the checkbox for **Adventureworks** and then select **Next: Summary >**. 

    {: .important }
    > After selecting the **Adventureworks** database, there will be an additional checkbox. This is authorizing Azure to overwrite the data from the previous migration with the data from this one. In this case, the data is the same and we can proceed without fear of data loss. However, in a production environment, pay attention to this setting to determine when you’re about to overwrite data. 

1. Select **Start Validation and Migration**. 

    {: .warning }
    > This process may take 3-4 minutes. 

    {: .important }
    > An online migration has more steps and takes a bit more time, but the source server applications aren't stopped in the process. Data is copied to the target server, then a cutover is performed to finalize the migration with no downtime in between. 

1. Select **Refresh** on the **azuredb@lab.LabInstance.Id - Migration** page periodically until the **onlinemigration** job status shows as **Waiting For Use**. 

1. From the Windows taskbar, select **Windows PowerShell** and run the following command to connect to the newly migrated **Adventureworks** database: 

    ```
    psql -h @lab.Variable(privateIP) -p 5432 -U postgres Adventureworks 
    ``` 

1. Enter **@lab.VirtualMachine(WindowsClientPostgreSQL16).Password** for the password.

    {: .warning }
    > The text cursor for password entry does not move as you type. You may need to select **Enter** a couple times.

1. Once connected to the **Adventureworks** database through PowerShell, run the following command: 

    ```
    SELECT name FROM humanresources.department; 
    ``` 

    [k3q6pg5d.jpg](../../media/k3q6pg5d.jpg) 

    {: .important }
    > This command should return a list of 16 rows, showing the records in the **department** table. Since the online migration hasn't been completed yet, the data is being pulled from the offline migration performed earlier. With the online migration method, data can be added even after the migration has started, as long as the cutover hasn't been performed yet. Let's add a new row now to test this. 

1. From the PowerShell connection to **Adventureworks**, run the following command to add a new row to the **department** table. 

    ``` 
    INSERT INTO humanresources.department VALUES (17, 'Logistics', 'Inventory Management', DEFAULT); 
    ``` 

1. Minimize the PowerShell connection, you'll return to it later. 

1. Return to the Azure portal and the **azuredb@lab.LabInstance.Id - Migration** page. 

1. Select **onlinemigration** from the list.

    [on4t9ntj.jpg](../../media/on4t9ntj.jpg) 

1. On the **onlinemigration** page, select **Cutover**, then select **Yes**. 

    {: .warning }
    > This process may take 5-7 minutes to complete. 

    [6euhl3wk.jpg](../../media/6euhl3wk.jpg) 

1. Select **Refresh** on the **onlinemigration** page until the **Validation status** shows as **Succeeded**. 

1. At the bottom of the **onlinemigration** page, select the link to the **Adventureworks** database. 

1. In the **Validation and migration details for Adventureworks** flyout menu, select the **Migration** tab. 

1. Verify the **Database Status** shows as **Succeeded** and the **Number of tables copied** shows as **69**. 

    [xaug5dpz.jpg](../../media/xaug5dpz.jpg) 

1. Return to the **azuredb@lab.LabInstance.Id - Migration** page selecting the breadcrumb link in the upper left. 

1. Refresh the **azuredb@lab.LabInstance.Id - Migration** page and verify that the **onlinemigration** shows as **Succeeded**. 

    [9lpbu8gr.jpg](../../media/9lpbu8gr.jpg) 

1. From the Windows taskbar, select **Windows PowerShell**. You should still be connected to the **Adventureworks** database. If not, run the following command: 

    ```
    psql -h @lab.Variable(privateIP) -p 5432 -U postgres Adventureworks 
    ``` 

    {: .note}
    > Enter **@lab.VirtualMachine(WindowsClientPostgreSQL16).Password** for the password. 

1. Once connected to the **Adventureworks** database through PowerShell, run the following command: 

    ```
    SELECT name FROM humanresources.department; 
    ``` 

    [3f9kym3p.jpg](../../media/3f9kym3p.jpg) 

    {: .important }
    > We're running this command again to check the row names in the **department** table. At the bottom of the results, notice that the **Logistics** record was migrated successfully. 

You've successfully completed this task.

---

## Conclusion 

Congratulations! You've completed the **Online and Offline migration of PostgreSQL to Azure Database for PostgreSQL server** lab. 

Select **End** to close the lab environment and end the lab. 

</details> 
