---
title: '02. Perform online migration '
layout: default
nav_order: 2
parent: 'Exercise 02: Complete offline and online migration'
---

## Task 2: Perform online migration 

Next, you will configure connection options and execute an online migration, ensuring minimal disruption and enabling the city to continue providing public services without extended downtime.

1. From Windows File Explorer, go to **`C:\Program Files\PostgreSQL\16\data`** and open the **postgresql.conf** file with Notepad. 

1. In the **postgresql.conf** file, select **Ctrl+F** to find the value **wal_level**.

1. Delete the **#** at the start of the line to uncomment the setting.

1. Set the **wal_level** value to **logical**, and then remove the comment to the right. 

    [yktk443b.jpg](../media/yktk443b.jpg) 

1. Save and close the file. 

1. A server restart is required for the changes to take effect. Right-click the Windows icon in the lower left, select **Shut down or sign out**, then select **Restart** to reboot the VM. 

1. Once the VM has rebooted, sign in again to **`@lab.VirtualMachine(WindowsClientPostgreSQL16).Username`** with **`@lab.VirtualMachine(WindowsClientPostgreSQL16).Password`**. 

1. Reconnect to the **Vnet1** VPN by selecting the network icon in the notification area and then selecting the **Vnet1** connection. 

    [ismt7gva.jpg](../media/ismt7gva.jpg) 

1. From the VPN settings, select **Vnet1** and then select **Connect**. 

    [8wlflp18.jpg](../media/8wlflp18.jpg) 

1. A separate **Vnet1** connection window will open in the background. Switch to it and select **Connect**. 

    {: .note}
    > A Window may show asking about privilege escalation, select **Continue**. 

    [oigc7yk6.jpg](../media/oigc7yk6.jpg) 

1. At the User Account Control prompt, enter **@lab.VirtualMachine(WindowsClientPostgreSQL16).Password** and select **Yes**. 

1. Verify that **Vnet1** is connected successfully. The word "**Connected**" should show under the **Vnet1** connection.

    [q5bvkdzr.jpg](../media/q5bvkdzr.jpg) 

1. If your Microsoft Edge session is not restored, open it and go to [https://portal.azure.com](https://portal.azure.com). 

1. If needed, sign in again to the Azure portal with the following:

    | Item | Value |
    |:--------|:--------|
    | Username   | **`@lab.CloudPortalCredential(User1).Username`**   |
    | Password  | **`@lab.CloudPortalCredential(User1).Password`**   |
 
1. From the Azure portal home page, select the **azuredb@lab.LabInstance.Id** Azure Database from the **Recent** list of resources. 

1. On the **azuredb@lab.LabInstance.Id** page, select **Migration** from the left service menu.

1. Select **+ Create**. 

    [t44jhi2u.jpg](../media/t44jhi2u.jpg) 

1. On the **Migrate PostgreSQL to Azure Database for PostgreSQL Flexible Server** page, configure the following settings: 

    | Item | Value | 
    |:---------|:---------| 
    | Migration name   | **`onlinemigration`** | 
    | Source server type   | **On-premise Server**   |  
    | Migration option  |   **Validate and Migrate** |
    | Migration mode    |   **Online**  |

    {: .note}
    > When switching from **Offline** to **Online** for the **Migration mode**, you might notice an additional prerequisite is added below. The additional prerequisite for the online connection is to set the **WAL_LEVEL** to **logical** in the source server. This is the reason for the extra configuration and server reboot earlier. 

1. Select **Next: Select Runtime Server >**. 

1. On the **Select Runtime Server** tab, leave the default option of **No** selected and select **Next: Connect to source >**. 

1. On the **Connect to source** tab, configure the following settings: 

    | Item | Value | 
    |:---------|:---------| 
    | Server name   | **`@lab.Variable(VPN)`** | 
    | Port   | **`5432`**   |  
    | Server admin login name  |   **`postgres`** 
    | Password    |   **`Passw0rd!`** 
    | SSL mode   | **Prefer**   |  

    [a3zcj9s8.jpg](../media/a3zcj9s8.jpg) 

1. Select **Connect to source**.

1. Once the connection test completes, select **Next: Select migration target >**. 

1. On the **Select migration target** tab, enter **`Passw0rd!`** in the **Password** field, then select **Connect to target**. 

1. Once the connection test completes, select **Next: Select database(s) for migration >**. 

1. On the **Select database(s) for migration** tab, select the checkbox for **Adventureworks** and then select **Next: Summary >**. 

    {: .important }
    > After selecting the **Adventureworks** database, there will be an additional checkbox. This is authorizing Azure to overwrite the data from the previous migration with the data from this one. In this case, the data is the same and we can proceed without fear of data loss. However, in a production environment, pay attention to this setting to determine when you’re about to overwrite data. 

1. Select **Start Validation and Migration**. 

    {: .warning }
    > This process may take 3-4 minutes. 

    {: .important }
    > An online migration has more steps and takes a bit more time, but the source server applications aren't stopped in the process. Data is copied to the target server, then a cutover is performed to finalize the migration with no downtime in between. 

1. Select **Refresh** on the **azuredb@lab.LabInstance.Id | Migration** page periodically until the **onlinemigration** job status shows as **Waiting For Use**. 

1. From the Windows taskbar, select **Windows PowerShell** and run the following command to connect to the newly migrated **Adventureworks** database: 

    ```
    psql -h @lab.Variable(privateIP) -p 5432 -U postgres Adventureworks 
    ``` 

1. Enter **`@lab.VirtualMachine(WindowsClientPostgreSQL16).Password`** for the password.

    {: .warning }
    > The text cursor for password entry does not move as you type. You may need to select **Enter** a couple times.

1. Once connected to the **Adventureworks** database through PowerShell, run the following command: 

    ```
    SELECT name FROM humanresources.department; 
    ``` 

    [k3q6pg5d.jpg](../media/k3q6pg5d.jpg) 

    {: .important }
    > This command should return a list of 16 rows, showing the records in the **department** table. Since the online migration hasn't been completed yet, the data is being pulled from the offline migration performed earlier. With the online migration method, data can be added even after the migration has started, as long as the cutover hasn't been performed yet. Let's add a new row now to test this. 

1. From the PowerShell connection to **Adventureworks**, run the following command to add a new row to the **department** table. 

    ``` 
    INSERT INTO humanresources.department VALUES (17, 'Logistics', 'Inventory Management', DEFAULT); 
    ``` 

1. Minimize the PowerShell connection, you'll return to it later. 

1. Return to the Azure portal and the **azuredb@lab.LabInstance.Id | Migration** page. 

1. Select **onlinemigration** from the list.

    [on4t9ntj.jpg](../media/on4t9ntj.jpg) 

1. On the **onlinemigration** page, select **Cutover**, then select **Yes**. 

    {: .warning }
    > This process may take 5-7 minutes to complete. 

    [6euhl3wk.jpg](../media/6euhl3wk.jpg) 

1. Select **Refresh** on the **onlinemigration** page until the **Validation status** shows as **Succeeded**. 

1. At the bottom of the **onlinemigration** page, select the link to the **Adventureworks** database. 

1. In the **Validation and migration details for Adventureworks** flyout menu, select the **Migration** tab. 

1. Verify the **Database Status** shows as **Succeeded** and the **Number of tables copied** shows as **69**. 

    [xaug5dpz.jpg](../media/xaug5dpz.jpg) 

1. Return to the **azuredb@lab.LabInstance.Id | Migration** page selecting the breadcrumb link in the upper left. 

1. Refresh the **azuredb@lab.LabInstance.Id | Migration** page and verify that the **onlinemigration** shows as **Succeeded**. 

    [9lpbu8gr.jpg](../media/9lpbu8gr.jpg) 

1. From the Windows taskbar, select **Windows PowerShell**. You should still be connected to the **Adventureworks** database. If not, run the following command: 

    ```
    psql -h @lab.Variable(privateIP) -p 5432 -U postgres Adventureworks 
    ``` 

    {: .note}
    > Enter +++@lab.VirtualMachine(WindowsClientPostgreSQL16).Password+++ for the password. 

1. Once connected to the **Adventureworks** database through PowerShell, run the following command: 

    ```
    SELECT name FROM humanresources.department; 
    ``` 

    [3f9kym3p.jpg](../media/3f9kym3p.jpg) 

    {: .important }
    > We're running this command again to check the row names in the **department** table. At the bottom of the results, notice that the **Logistics** record was migrated successfully. 

You've successfully completed this task and exercise! Select **Next** to continue. 

=== 

## Conclusion 

Congratulations! You've completed the **Online and Offline migration of PostgreSQL to Azure Database for PostgreSQL server** lab. Select **End** to close the lab environment and end the lab. 