---
title: '04. Compare Results of RAG responses using Vector search, Reranker or GraphRAG'
layout: default
nav_order: 4
parent: 'Exercise 03: How RAG chatbot accuracy improves with different techniques'
---

## Task 04: Compare Results of RAG responses using Vector search, Reranker or GraphRAG

As you look through these results, consider the following aspects while comparing them:

- Accuracy: Which query returns more relevant results?
- Understandability: Which response is easier to comprehend and more user-friendly?

Evaluate which query approach yields more relevant results, factoring in accuracy, clarity, and user-friendliness. Determining the best method helps Metropolis optimize data retrieval and resolution workflows.

1. Open your browser back to the RAG application tab, or go to: **https://abeomorogbe-graphra-ca.gentledune-632d42cd.eastus2.azurecontainerapps.io**

1. Select **Vector** on the top bar, then select **Clear** in the upper right, if needed, to go back to the home screen.

1. Select **Water leaking into the apartment** from the example queries.

1. Select the **Show graph** icon in the upper right of the prompt's response to see which cases were used to answer the question. 

1. Repeat the steps for **Semantic Ranker** and **GraphRAG + Semantic Ranker** on the top bar.

As you implement more advanced techniques, you’ll get better accuracy for different scenarios. 

---

## Reference: Golden Dataset

Top 10 most relevant cases for the query: 

 - "Water leaking into the apartment from the floor above. What are the prominent legal precedents from cases in Washington on this problem?"

```sql-nocopy
   id    |                       case_name                        
---------+-------------------------------------------------------
1186056  | Stuart v. Coldwell Banker Commercial Group, Inc.
4975399  | Laurelon Terrace Inc v. City of Seattle
1034620  | Jorgensen v. Massart 
1095193  | Thomas v. Housing Authority
1127907  | Foisy v. Wyman
1279441  | Tope v. King County
1186056  | Le Vette v. Hardman Estate 
768356   | Martindale Clothing Co. v. Spokane & Eastern Trust Co
1086651  | Schedler v. Wagner
2601920  | Pappas v. Zerwoodis
```